# CSE 262: Programming Assignment 4: Interpreting Slang

In this assignment, we will complete the last stage of our "Slang" interpreter,
by building a tree-walk interpreter.  This will let you execute programs for the
relatively complete subset of the Slang programming language that we have been
working with in the previous assignments.  In order to gain experience working
in new languages, you will implement the interpreter twice, once in Java, and
then in Python.  You will also write some Scheme code that you can use as test
cases for your interpreter.

## Project Details

Interpreting is not hard, once you get the hang of what it entails.  The hard
part is creating a standard library of useful functions.  One way to think about
it is like this: as you walk the AST (via a Visitor), many nodes just need to
return themselves, and many of the rest just need to do somewhat "standard"
computation.  However, when there is an Apply of a function to its arguments, if
that is a built-in function, we need to have some code to run.  Furthermore,
that code needs to be very smart: it needs to check the types of its arguments,
check the number of arguments, and only operate if it is reasonable to do so.

An additional point of interest here is that your interpreter needs to know when
to interpret, and when not.  For example, for an Apply node, the rule is "first,
interpret the first expression to get the function.  Then interpret the other
expressions to get its arguments.  Then type-check.  Then run the function and
return the result."

As you work on this assignment, you should try to write *idiomatic* code.
Try, as much as possible, to use language features that make your code more
readable, more familiar to experts, and more succinct and expressive.

The assignment does *not* assume that you have a working p3.  The interpreter
will take as its input the *output* of the parser.  Since your Python and Java
parsers should produce the same output, as long as one of them works for
programs that do not have invalid syntax, you should be fine.  If not, you
should ask questions on Piazza, and the professor or your classmates can provide
you with XML for an AST corresponding to test cases.  You can also use
`cxxscheme` with the `-scanparse` option on sunlab to get XML from Scheme code.

## What To Expect

The act of walking the AST to interpret is relatively straightforward.  The
Python code (slang_evaluator.py) is only 100 lines, and the Java code is only 145
lines.  The harder part is the standard library.  Types in Java make this *much*
harder.  In Python, the standard library is under 400 lines of code, with
comments.  In Java, it's more like 700 lines.  This code uses a functional
style, which helps a lot to keep the line count low.  If you aren't using
functional idioms, and you aren't writing helper functions to encapsulate common
behaviors, your Java code will easily reach 2000 lines.  Be sure to use your
language well!

Because we are implementing the interpreter in Java and Python, some things are
easy.  For example, we don't need to write our own garbage collector, because
the interpreter has a garbage collector already.  Similarly, you should feel
free to use existing functions from Java and Python (like `cos`).

You should also think carefully about the role that linked environments can play
in emulating the global scope and scopes for stack frames.  It's actually quite
elegant.  You will hopefully find tremendous satisfaction from discovering that
you can pass functions as arguments, you can capture variables with lambdas, you
can create arbitrarily large data structures on the heap, and you can generally
do most of the fancy stuff that a real programming language allows.

Of course, to know if your code is correct, you'll also want Scheme programs
that exercise your interpreter.  These will be provided at a later date.  When
you are starting off, you can just implement your own simple tests.

Rather than work on Java then Python, or vice versa, it is probably good to get
both to do a few math functions, and then start expanding the two
implementations simultaneously.  It is very satisfying to get a basic
"calculator" working, and once you do, most of the rest of the code will be
pretty easy to figure out.

## Tips and Reminders

**Start Early**.  Just reading the code and understanding what is happening
takes time.  If you start reading the assignment early, you'll give yourself
time to think about what is supposed to be happening, and that will help you
to figure out what you will need to do.

Note that some AST Nodes are not really for parsing, only for interpretation, so
you'll need to start thinking about them now.

As always, please be careful about not committing unnecessary files into your
repository.

## Grading

The Java code should be the most familiar, and will be weighted the heaviest: it
will be worth 50% of your grade on this assignment.  The Python code will be
worth 30%, and the Scheme will be worth 20%.  Please be sure to read
`specifications/StdLib.md` for notes about the standard library functions you
should implement.

You should be sure to comment your code, especially your tests.  For Java and
Python, comments will not be graded extensively, only if their absence is
egregious.  You may wish to use the provided code as a reference for how I
comment code, and mimic it.  In particular, note that good comments are
formatted in a way that lets the IDE read them and build tooltips for you from
them.

Please be sure to use your tools well.  For example, Visual Studio Code (and
emacs, and vim) have features that auto-format your code.  You should use these
features, so that your code is legible.

Note that some parts of the assignment, like error messages, are intentionally
vague: you need to start thinking about what it means for code to be "correct".
There are many criteria that cannot be established through unit testing.

## Collaboration and Getting Help

Students may work in teams of 2 for this assignment.  **I strongly recommend
working with a partner.**  If you plan to change your teammate, please notify me
early, so that I can set up your repository access.  If you are working in a
team, you should **pair program** for the entire assignment. After all, your
goal is to learn together, not to each learn half the material.

If you require help, you may seek it from any of the following sources:

* The professor and TAs, via office hours or Piazza
* The Internet, as long as you use the Internet as a read-only resource and do
  not post requests for help to online sites.

It is not appropriate to share code with past or current CSE 262 students,
unless you are sharing code with your teammate.

StackOverflow is a wonderful tool for professional software engineers.  It is a
horrible place to ask for help as a student.  You should feel free to use
StackOverflow, but only as a *read only* resource.  In this class, you should
**never** need to ask a question on StackOverflow.

## Deadline

You should be done with this assignment before 11:59 PM on Dec 9th, 2022.
Please be sure to `git commit` and `git push` before that time, so that I can
promptly collect and grade your work.

There are many parts to this assignment, so you will probably want to `git push`
frequently.

Please note that there will be no extensions for this assignment: it is due as
late as is possible for me to still assign course grades before the deadline.
